README.md, before:

# Best practices 

## Description of the project

This repository is created to present best practices in software development, to help developers with guidelines how to create good pofessional code for different programs.

## Table of content

- [Best practices](#best-practices)
  - [Description of the project](#description-of-the-project)
  - [Table of content](#table-of-content)
  - [Getting started](#getting-started)
    - [Requirements](#requirements)
      - [Quickstart](#quickstart)
      - [Useage](#useage)
  - [Languages \&\& Frameworks \&\& Tools](#languages--frameworks--tools)
    - [Smart contracts - Solidity](#smart-contracts---solidity)
    - [Github](#github)
    - [Javascript](#javascript)
      - [Node.js](#nodejs)
      - [React](#react)
    - [Typescript](#typescript)


## Getting started

### Requirements

#### Quickstart

#### Useage 


## Languages && Frameworks && Tools

### Smart contracts - Solidity 

[Here](./Solidity/README.md) are some advices of how to write code for smart contracts in solidity

### Github

For safe and easyer development it is very important to use repository for your code. 
That's why you need to have at least basic knowledge how to use repository. 

On this [link](./Github/README.md) are some basic instructions of how to create repository on github.com and how to save your code there.

### Javascript

#### Node.js


#### React

### Typescript

Commit message:

added hardhat best practices and some other changes

README.md, after:

# Best practices 

## Description of the project

This repository is created to present best practices in software development, to help developers with guidelines how to create good pofessional code for different programs.
It will be constantly envolving and growing, also some of this parts will be unfinished or should I say open for editing.

## Table of content

- [Best practices](#best-practices)
  - [Description of the project](#description-of-the-project)
  - [Table of content](#table-of-content)
  - [Getting started](#getting-started)
    - [About](#about)
    - [Requirements](#requirements)
      - [Quickstart](#quickstart)
      - [Useage](#useage)
  - [Languages \&\& Frameworks \&\& Tools](#languages--frameworks--tools)
    - [Solidity - Smart contracts](#solidity---smart-contracts)
    - [Github](#github)
    - [Javascript](#javascript)
      - [Node.js](#nodejs)
      - [React](#react)
    - [Typescript](#typescript)


## Getting started

### About

Created by: Gregor Sajovic
At: 3.april.2025
In: Polica office

### Requirements

#### Quickstart

#### Useage 


## Languages && Frameworks && Tools

### Solidity - Smart contracts 

[Here](./Solidity/README.md) are some advices of how to write code for smart contracts in solidity

### Github

For safe and easyer development it is very important to use repository for your code. 
That's why you need to have at least basic knowledge how to use repository. 

On this [link](./Github/README.md) are some basic instructions of how to create repository on github.com and how to save your code there.

### Javascript

#### Node.js


#### React

### Typescript
