Javascript/Node.js/README.md, before:

## 📦 JavaScript / Node.js Project Structure & Best Practices

Organizing your backend project with clarity and consistency makes development faster, debugging easier, and collaboration smoother.

---

### Table of content

- [📦 JavaScript / Node.js Project Structure \& Best Practices](#-javascript--nodejs-project-structure--best-practices)
  - [Table of content](#table-of-content)
  - [✅ 1. Best Practices](#-1-best-practices)
  - [📛 2. Naming Conventions](#-2-naming-conventions)
  - [📁 3. Folder Structure](#-3-folder-structure)
  - [🧪 4. Testing (Optional)](#-4-testing-optional)
  - [📚 5. Recommended Tools](#-5-recommended-tools)


---

### ✅ 1. Best Practices

- Use `ES Modules` or `CommonJS` consistently (don't mix both).
- Avoid deep nesting of folders – keep it flat and modular.
- Use environment variables for secrets via `.env`.
- Handle errors centrally with middleware or utility functions.
- Split business logic, routing, and configuration into separate layers.
- Use linters (`eslint`) and formatters (`prettier`) for clean code.
- Validate all input data (consider using `Joi`, `zod`, or `express-validator`).
- Prefer async/await over `.then()`/`.catch()` for readability.
- Keep files small and focused – one module/class per file.

---

### 📛 2. Naming Conventions

| Type              | Convention      | Example                  |
|-------------------|-----------------|--------------------------|
| Files & Folders   | `kebab-case`    | `user-controller.js`     |
| Variables         | `camelCase`     | `userId`, `totalPrice`   |
| Classes           | `PascalCase`    | `UserService`            |
| Constants         | `UPPER_SNAKE`   | `MAX_RETRIES`            |
| Functions         | `camelCase`     | `handleLogin()`          |

> ✅ Keep file names descriptive and function names action-oriented.

---

### 📁 3. Folder Structure

Below is a standard Node.js backend layout (Express or similar):

```bash
project-root/
├── src/
│   ├── controllers/         # Route handlers (business logic)
│   │   └── user-controller.js
│   │
│   ├── routes/              # Express route definitions
│   │   └── user-routes.js
│   │
│   ├── models/              # Data models (e.g., Mongoose, Sequelize)
│   │   └── user-model.js
│   │
│   ├── services/            # Business logic helpers
│   │   └── auth-service.js
│   │
│   ├── middlewares/         # Express middleware (auth, validation, etc.)
│   │   └── auth-middleware.js
│   │
│   ├── utils/               # Utility functions and helpers
│   │   └── logger.js
│   │
│   ├── config/              # Environment configs and DB setup
│   │   └── db.js
│   │
│   └── app.js               # Express app setup
│
├── .env                     # Environment variables
├── .gitignore
├── package.json
├── README.md
└── server.js                # Entry point
```

---

### 🧪 4. Testing (Optional)

```bash
tests/
├── unit/
│   └── user-service.test.js
├── integration/
│   └── auth-flow.test.js

```


> 🔍 Consider using `jest`, `mocha`, or `vitest` for testing.

---

### 📚 5. Recommended Tools

- **Linting**: `eslint`, `prettier`
- **Testing**: `jest`, `supertest`, `mocha`
- **Environment**: `dotenv`
- **Validation**: `joi`, `zod`, `express-validator`
- **Logging**: `winston`, `pino`

---

Following these conventions helps maintain scalable and readable code throughout your Node.js projects. 🧠

 ---

Commit message:

adding links to top and main readme

Javascript/Node.js/README.md, after:

<p align="right">(<a href="#../README.md">Back to main readme</a>)</p>


## 📦 JavaScript / Node.js Project Structure & Best Practices

Organizing your backend project with clarity and consistency makes development faster, debugging easier, and collaboration smoother.

---

### Table of content

- [📦 JavaScript / Node.js Project Structure \& Best Practices](#-javascript--nodejs-project-structure--best-practices)
  - [Table of content](#table-of-content)
  - [✅ 1. Best Practices](#-1-best-practices)
  - [📛 2. Naming Conventions](#-2-naming-conventions)
  - [📁 3. Folder Structure](#-3-folder-structure)
  - [🧪 4. Testing (Optional)](#-4-testing-optional)
  - [📚 5. Recommended Tools](#-5-recommended-tools)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

### ✅ 1. Best Practices

- Use `ES Modules` or `CommonJS` consistently (don't mix both).
- Avoid deep nesting of folders – keep it flat and modular.
- Use environment variables for secrets via `.env`.
- Handle errors centrally with middleware or utility functions.
- Split business logic, routing, and configuration into separate layers.
- Use linters (`eslint`) and formatters (`prettier`) for clean code.
- Validate all input data (consider using `Joi`, `zod`, or `express-validator`).
- Prefer async/await over `.then()`/`.catch()` for readability.
- Keep files small and focused – one module/class per file.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

### 📛 2. Naming Conventions

| Type              | Convention      | Example                  |
|-------------------|-----------------|--------------------------|
| Files & Folders   | `kebab-case`    | `user-controller.js`     |
| Variables         | `camelCase`     | `userId`, `totalPrice`   |
| Classes           | `PascalCase`    | `UserService`            |
| Constants         | `UPPER_SNAKE`   | `MAX_RETRIES`            |
| Functions         | `camelCase`     | `handleLogin()`          |

> ✅ Keep file names descriptive and function names action-oriented.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

### 📁 3. Folder Structure

Below is a standard Node.js backend layout (Express or similar):

```bash
project-root/
├── src/
│   ├── controllers/         # Route handlers (business logic)
│   │   └── user-controller.js
│   │
│   ├── routes/              # Express route definitions
│   │   └── user-routes.js
│   │
│   ├── models/              # Data models (e.g., Mongoose, Sequelize)
│   │   └── user-model.js
│   │
│   ├── services/            # Business logic helpers
│   │   └── auth-service.js
│   │
│   ├── middlewares/         # Express middleware (auth, validation, etc.)
│   │   └── auth-middleware.js
│   │
│   ├── utils/               # Utility functions and helpers
│   │   └── logger.js
│   │
│   ├── config/              # Environment configs and DB setup
│   │   └── db.js
│   │
│   └── app.js               # Express app setup
│
├── .env                     # Environment variables
├── .gitignore
├── package.json
├── README.md
└── server.js                # Entry point
```

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

### 🧪 4. Testing (Optional)

```bash
tests/
├── unit/
│   └── user-service.test.js
├── integration/
│   └── auth-flow.test.js

```


> 🔍 Consider using `jest`, `mocha`, or `vitest` for testing.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

### 📚 5. Recommended Tools

- **Linting**: `eslint`, `prettier`
- **Testing**: `jest`, `supertest`, `mocha`
- **Environment**: `dotenv`
- **Validation**: `joi`, `zod`, `express-validator`
- **Logging**: `winston`, `pino`

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

Following these conventions helps maintain scalable and readable code throughout your Node.js projects. 🧠


<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

 ---
